RFC 1: Spec out details of redemption (#132)
keep-network/tbtc-v2: docs/rfc/rfc-1.adoc

  will trigger an early sweep on a wallet.
- `dust_threshold`: The minimum bitcoin deposit amount for the transaction to
  be considered for a sweep.
- `base_btc_fee_max`: The highest amount of BTC that operators can

>   initially propose as a fee for miners in a sweeping transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  initially propose as a fee for miners of Bitcoin transaction.
```

Author: We are in the Governable Parameters of Sweeping section, I intentionally left it this way so that we are more specific the transaction we are talking about is the sweeping transaction.

Reviewer: I see, makes sense.

> - `sweeping_fee_bump_period`: The amount of time we wait to see if a sweeping

Reviewer: Could we add `btc_fee_max` here as well?

Author: 428af5bc8ee9c07f2a4883d66c5351fea66a3525

*Note*: We do not allow users to specify a max btc fee. When users deposit,
they're agreeing to be swept at whatever fee the operators decide is
appropriate (based on https://blockstream.info/api/fee-estimates). Operators

> cannot pick a starting fee higher than `base_btc_fee_max`.

Reviewer: Could we mention here that fee cannot be bumped above `btc_fee_max` level?

Author: 428af5bc8ee9c07f2a4883d66c5351fea66a3525

choose a fee higher than `btc_fee_max`.

When the transaction clears, and the information has made its way

> over the relay maintainer, then another transqaction needs to be created to on

Reviewer: This got introduced accidentally, could you fix that as well? :)

Author: Ooops, see https://github.com/keep-network/tbtc-v2/pull/132/commits/552171477ba5f1ba08700c9246497cafb2a1882b - I squashed two last commits with typo fixes.

Governable Parameters:

- `redemption_request_timeout`: The amount of time the wallet has to provide
  redemption proof.
- `redemption_request_timeout_slashing_amount`: The amount of stake slashed from
  each member of a wallet for a timed-out redemption request.
- `redemption_request_timeout_redemeer_bonus_multiplier`: The percentage of the
  notifier reward from the staking contract the redeemer receives in case of a
  redemption timeout.
- `redemption_treasury_fee`: The percentage of redeemed amount put aside as a
  treasury fee.
- `wallet_min_btc`: The smallest amount of BTC a wallet can hold before we
  attempt to close the wallet and transfer the funds to a randomly selected
  wallet.

To initiate a redemption, a user with a swept balance > `x` supplies a bitcoin
address. Then, the system calculates the redemption fee `fee`, and releases an
amount of bitcoin `y` such that `x = y + fee` to the supplied bitcoin address.

> The remaining `fee` is sold by the system to buy back `T` tokens (more about this

Reviewer: Could we replace `fee` here with `redemption_treasury_fee`?

Author: 89cfc7d20db222d71cddd56fdc74c2a8f93a964d

Governable Parameters:

- `redemption_request_timeout`: The amount of time the wallet has to provide
  redemption proof.
- `redemption_request_timeout_slashing_amount`: The amount of stake slashed from
  each member of a wallet for a timed-out redemption request.
- `redemption_request_timeout_redemeer_bonus_multiplier`: The percentage of the
  notifier reward from the staking contract the redeemer receives in case of a
  redemption timeout.
- `redemption_fraud_slashing_amount`: The amount or stake slashed from each
  member of a wallet for a redemption fraud.
- `redempton_fraud_notifier_reward_multiplier`: The percentage of the notifier

>   reward from the staking contract the notifier of redemption fraud receives.

Author: https://github.com/keep-network/tbtc-v2/pull/132/commits/14bf3cf0403089b102ffaaa37ad84cfc83526fe9

Governable Parameters:

- `redemption_request_timeout`: The amount of time the wallet has to provide
  redemption proof.

> - `redemption_request_timeout_slashing_amount`: The amount of stake slashed from

Reviewer 2: What is the unit here? Is it a percentage or raw T tokens?

`wallet_min_btc` remaining, it transfers that BTC to a randomly selected wallet
and closes.

Each redemption request is identified by a concatenation of the wallet's pubkey
hash and redeemer's output hash (redeemer's BTC address). Such an identifier
allows retrieving pending redemption requests in a gas-efficient way based on
information provided in the redemption proof. A consequence of this approach is
that the redeemer can not use the same redemption BTC address when there is
already one redemption request pending from the given wallet. User experience
can be improved by the dApp by selecting the previous-oldest wallet without a
pending redemption request to the given BTC address in case a new redemption is
requested before the pending one gets cleared out.

At a minimum, pending redemption request needs to capture the following
information:
- Expected range of value for redemption UTXO: needed to validate the amount
  released by the system when processing the redemption proof. Fees are
  governable and the expected amount redeemed needs to be captured at the moment

>   of the redemption request.

Reviewer: > Expected range of value for redemption UTXO

I don't fully understand this, why are we talking about a range here? I'm not sure I get the intention of this paragraph right, but how I understand it is that we want to make sure that the share of the `Y` fee charged from the redeemer will be computed based on the value of `Y` at the moment of redemption request (so that if `Y` got increased by the governance before redemption request got processed, redeemer would not be charged more than he initially anticipated). But I don't see how that corresponds to need for storing an expected range for value of UTXO and how would that range be calculated.

Author: Say that I want to redeem 5 TBTC from my balance.

Right now, the redemption fee for the treasury is 0.1 TBTC.

I know that I  will receive no more than 4.9 BTC because 0.1 TBTC was a redemption fee paid to the system.

"No more" than 4.9 BTC because there is Bitoin fee paid to the miners. If that fee is 3 sat, then I will receive `4.9 BTC - 3 sat`.

At the moment of requesting the redemption, we do not know what the Bitcoin miner fee will be. We also do not know if the treasury fee is not going to be altered. That's why we either need to capture expected ranges or capture max Bitcoin fee and treasury fee and calculate if UTXO value (BTC I received) is above the acceptable value or not.

>   of the redemption request.

Author: Here I am talking about the redemption fee, `fee`. It is mentioned earlier but not listed on the list of governable parameters. I can fix it. This is what you called `Y`.

Also, I think we should have another governable parameter `max_btc_tx_fee`, that will protect against the situation when the wallet decides to spend 99% of the redeemed BTC on Bitcoin network fees.

`X` you mentioned does not exist. Bitcoin network receives its fee from the redeemed Bitcoin, it means that the redemeer receives a bit less BTC than the redeemed amount minus `fee` for the treasury.

>   of the redemption request.

Reviewer: @pdyraga, could you add that `fee` parameter to the list of governable params in this section and at the end of the doc? And include in the explanation that it's not a flat fee, but %?

>   of the redemption request.

Author: Done in https://github.com/keep-network/tbtc-v2/pull/132/commits/bd81af627ffcfea060602ac851a789d26c5e20cc.

`wallet_min_btc` remaining, it transfers that BTC to a randomly selected wallet
and closes.

Each redemption request is identified by a concatenation of the wallet's pubkey
hash and redeemer's output hash (redeemer's BTC address). Such an identifier
allows retrieving pending redemption requests in a gas-efficient way based on
information provided in the redemption proof. A consequence of this approach is
that the redeemer can not use the same redemption BTC address when there is
already one redemption request pending from the given wallet. User experience
can be improved by the dApp by selecting the previous-oldest wallet without a
pending redemption request to the given BTC address in case a new redemption is
requested before the pending one gets cleared out.

At a minimum, pending redemption request needs to capture the following
information:

> - Expected range of value for redemption UTXO: needed to validate the amount

Reviewer 2: Check for my understanding: Is this a range because the mining fee is a range? As in, say that we're trying to redeem 1 TBTC, the redemption fee is 1% (0.01 TBTC), and the mining fee ranges from 0.0001 BTC to 0.0003 BTC (paid in TBTC). 

We need to validate that the redemption address receives from `1-0.01-0.0001=0.9899` to `1-0.01-0.0001=0.9897` BTC.

Reviewer: Yes, exactly as you wrote, it's because we don't know the mining fee. Piotr explained this to me in this comment:
https://github.com/keep-network/tbtc-v2/pull/132#discussion_r803873543

Author: Correct. In practice, we store the current redemption (treasury fee) and max BTC network fee in the `RedemptionRequest` but it is easier to explain in English as an acceptable range given that in the end, we are validating a range calculated based on the captured values of the parameters:

https://github.com/keep-network/tbtc-v2/blob/73fcd4832ad1a1cea43d9826b49f634453337f24/solidity/contracts/bridge/Bridge.sol#L113-L125

https://github.com/keep-network/tbtc-v2/blob/73fcd4832ad1a1cea43d9826b49f634453337f24/solidity/contracts/bridge/Bridge.sol#L1433-L1441

`txMaxFee` should be set to an exceptionally high value, say 1000x expected fee. It is there only to protect against wallets controlled by Bitcoin miners and stealing all the redeeming value in a form of a fee.

Author: One question though: should the redemption fee be a % of the redeemed value of a fixed fee in sat? Right now, the latter is implemented.

Reviewer 2: In my head it was a percentage of redeemed value - that's how I did all of the profitability modeling (otherwise it incentivizes big redemptions and now it's based on number of redemptions rather than amount redeemed)

Author: We will have to update it @lukasz-zimnoch

Reviewer 3: Here it is https://github.com/keep-network/tbtc-v2/pull/136

process redemption requests in time.

Just like in the case of sweeps, off-chain clients should wait for enough
redemption requests from the given wallet to accumulate and process them in
batches in order to minimize gas expenditure of redemption proofs. At the same
time, the redeemer does not care about the underlying mechanism and they want to
have their particular redemption request processed in time. Given that it is the
individual redemption request that is timing out and not the entire batch of
redemption requests, the wallet takes a certain risk on itself by waiting and
not processing individual redemption requests immediately. At the same time, in
case of a high number of redemption requests, the wallet is incentivized to
process them in batches to minimize the wait time for Bitcoin and Ethereum chain
confirmations between redemptions. To minimize the risk for the wallet and to do
not disincentivize it for waiting for enough redemption requests to accumulate,
the redemption timeout should be long enough, for example, 72 hours and ideally
even longer in the early days of the system.

A timed-out redemption request is considered a <<heartbeat,heartbeat>> failure

> and the wallet is ordered to move the BTC to another random wallet. The wallet

Reviewer: In this case, that closing of a wallet will happen as a result of `Notify redemption timeout` transaction, not `Notify heartbeat failed` - do I get that right?

Author: Correct!

notifier receives a reward as specified by
`redempton_fraud_notifier_reward_multiplier`. The fraudulent output information
is stored on-chain.

Second, there was a redemption request for the given UTXO but the UTXO value is
not within the expected range. In this case, the value difference is returned to
the redemeer as their balance. Each wallet member is slashed for
`redemption_fraud_slashing_amount` and the notifier receives a reward as
specified by `redempton_fraud_notifier_reward_multiplier`. The fraudulent output
information is stored on-chain.

The transaction must revert if the given fraud was already reported. 

If the wallet has still some BTC or if there is a redemption transaction with
some part of outputs fraudulent and some part of outputs valid, it should be
possible to submit redemption proof. Because information about fraudulent
outputs is stored on-chain, these outputs can be skipped by the Bridge and the
main wallet UTXO can be updated. This mechanism allows proving whatever can
still be proved and unblocking the wallet by updating its main UTXO.

The wallet is ordered to move the BTC to another random wallet and is no longer

> accepting redemption requests.

Author: Redesigned in: https://github.com/keep-network/tbtc-v2/pull/135

We can have fraud proofs!

judge if the Bitcoin was spent or not. It is the wallet's responsibility to
process redemption requests in time.

Just like in the case of sweeps, off-chain clients should wait for enough
redemption requests from the given wallet to accumulate and process them in
batches in order to minimize gas expenditure of redemption proofs. At the same
time, the redeemer does not care about the underlying mechanism and they want to
have their particular redemption request processed in time. Given that it is the
individual redemption request that is timing out and not the entire batch of
redemption requests, the wallet takes a certain risk on itself by waiting and
not processing individual redemption requests immediately. At the same time, in
case of a high number of redemption requests, the wallet is incentivized to
process them in batches to minimize the wait time for Bitcoin and Ethereum chain
confirmations between redemptions. To minimize the risk for the wallet and to do
not disincentivize it for waiting for enough redemption requests to accumulate,
the redemption timeout should be long enough, for example, 72 hours and ideally
even longer in the early days of the system.

> A timed-out redemption request is considered a <<heartbeat,heartbeat>> failure

Reviewer 2: How do we want this to interact with the `consecutive_failed_heartbeats` param?

```
- `consecutive_failed_heartbeats`: The number of times a heartbeat can fail in
  a row that triggers a move to close the wallet.
```

3 good options:

+ it counts for a single failure
+ it counts for a governable number of failures
+ it counts for +Inf failures (immediately moves into closing the wallet)

== Governable Parameters
Alphabetized list of Governable Parameters with additional notes.

- `base_btc_fee_max`: The highest amount of BTC that operators can

>   initially propose as a fee for miners for Bitcoin transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  initially propose as a fee for miners of Bitcoin transaction.
```

Author: c7935fa107dc1cc665e7c18d1a2fea06c2ff81da

- `btc_fee_broadcast_timeout`: The amount of time an operator has to provide a
  suggested BTC fee before the other operators give up and try the next
  operator.
- `btc_fee_max`: The highest amount of BTC that operators can eventually

>   propose as a fee for miners for Bitcoin transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  propose as a fee for miners of Bitcoin transaction.
```

Author: c7935fa107dc1cc665e7c18d1a2fea06c2ff81da
